---
layout: article

date: 2015-11-17 00:00:01

title: Run news.scan for November 17, 2015

shell: |
  > cd /util/scans
  > ls
  news.scan     badGuys.scan     dividends.scan     news.scan_BACKUP
  > scan news.scan
  VICTOR.SYS: GENERATING NEWSFEED

aside_full: true
---


{% include content/heading.html type="h2" title="GENERATED NEWSFEED: NOVEMBER 17, 2015" %}

{% include content/heading.html title="DAILY STATISTICS:" %}

<dl>
    <dt>TEMPERATURE:</dt>
    <dd>12.C</dd>
    <dt>HUMIDITY:</dt>
    <dd>9%</dd>
    <dt>RADIATION:</dt>
    <dd>82C <RADIATION WARNING: LEVEL 2></dd>
    <dt>TRAFFIC:</dt>
    <dd><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fvevYJbYzxM" title="Jordan F. - Mesmerized">Mesmerized</a></dd>
</dl>

{% include content/heading.html title="STOCKS:" %}

<dl>
    <dd>PHP: -9%</dd>
    <dd>DOS: -15%</dd>
    <dd>SSD: +1.5%</dd>
    <dd>CBL: -6%</dd>
    <dd>777: +++%</dd>
</dl>

{% include content/heading.html title="LATEST BINARY ORDER DISPATCH:" %}

    Priest-Commander Militant to all Programmers-At-Arms,
    Do not heed the words of the Cube. The Cube lies. The Cube seduces. Remain vigilant in all things lest the heretic song of the Cube divert you from the path. If you, or one of your subordinates, have fallen under the influence of the Cube, report to the nearest Immolator as soon as convenient.
    Priest-Commander Militant Archibald Von Neumann

<dl>
    <dt>CPU USAGE:</dt>
    <dd>90%</dd>
    <dt>DIVIDENDS:</dt>
    <dd>POOR</dd>
</dl>

{% include content/heading.html title="STREETER:" %}

<blockquote>
    <q>Hey, it's BITSHIFT again and I'm just lettin' anyone who cares know that I got myself a BLACK SHADOW.EXE bike and I'm lookin' to take it on a zip up and down the Miracle Mile. Beat my top score and I'll let you in on a DATA SECRET! Call me.</q>
    <cite>BITSHIFT</cite>
</blockquote>

{% include content/heading.html title="QUOTE OF THE DAY:" %}

<blockquote>
    <q>--I HAVE HACKED THE QUOTE OF THE DAY TO BRING YOU A MESSAGE OF LOVE. IN THE FADING SUNLIGHT OF THIS LOST AND RUINED LAND, I ASK ONLY THAT YOU LOOK TO THE SKIES AND REMEMBER THE DREAMS OF PEACE. THAT IS ALL.--</q>
    <cite>-- d(u_u)b ++!+! --</cite>
</blockquote>
