---
layout: article

date: 2015-11-02 00:00:01

title: Run grats.sh

shell: |
  > cd /prepared/positive/
  > ./grat
  Err: File grat.sh not found.
  > ./grats
---

Let's get right to the point- big ups to everyone who came out to Hal-Con, said 'hi', bought our books, and just made the day great for ol' Cobalt and Electricity. We learned a ton about conventions, electrical currents, and stock prices, and it's all thanks to you.

So, if you bought our books, you're probably wondering where to go from here. Well, if you want more of Cobalt's signature brand of business-comedy, your best bet is to hit the GRIDD and surf on over to [wolfbutler.com](http://www.wolfbutler.com/) and see the rest of his work, including but not limited to his blog about a badger, and his last novel, Gray.

As for all you who bought Kobra Stallion, you're in the right place! Keep watching this Webzone and you'll see a few new things creepin' up into the cyberlanes.

For one, Life Comix, the Snakepunk institution that started it all will be returning this Saturday! We finally dug up the old routines we used to generate those things, so you'll be seeing more of them shortly as soon as we can square the old FORTRAN routines with C.H.R.I.S' hardware.

Second, since we have officially sold out of copies of <em>The Life Comix 2014 Chilled-Out Summertime Jam</em>, we will be making the book available as a PDF for download from this site. Those who have physical copies, rejoice! You are in possession of a rare colletor's item. Fewer than 60 were printed, ever. And if they are printed again, they will be different from those, so consider yourself lucky(?/!)

And third, as always, if you have any questions or comments, please feel free to email me at the Flyknife Comics gmail (see footer). I'd love to hear what you thought of the book!

Oh, one more thing- you may experience an uptick in your Lateral Attack Power as you read the book. That's normal, exposure to concentrated Snakepunk usually sees a brief increase in GUTS and MORALE, the two stats from which Lateral Attack Power is derived.
