---
layout: article

date: 2015-07-24 00:00:01

title: Run news.scan for July 24, 2015

bash: |
  > cd /util/scans
  > ks
  > ks: command not found
  > ls
  news.scan     badGuys.scan     dividends.scan     news.scan_BACKUP
  > scan news.scan
  VICTOR.SYS GENERATING NEWSFEED
---

GENERATED NEWSFEED: JULY 24, 2015
DAILY STATISTICS:
<dl>
  <dt>TEMPERATURE:</dt> 
  <dd>33.C</dd>
  <dt>HUMIDITY:</dt> 
  <dd>33%</dd>
  <dt>RADIATION:</dt> 
  <dd>33B <RADIATION WARNING: LEVEL 0></dd>
  <dt>TRAFFIC:</dt>
  <dd>BINARY ORDER ROAD CLOSURES ALONG MIRACLE MILE && BURN ST.</dd>
</dl>

STOCKS:
<dl>
  <dd>BBS: +1.3%</dd>
  <dd>DOS: -1%</dd>
  <dd>HDD: -0.3%</dd>
  <dd>CBL: +2%</dd>
  <dd>777: +1.3%</dd>
</dl>

LATEST BINARY ORDER DISPATCH:

    Priest-Commander Militant to all Programmers-At-Arms,
    Decker activity has been detected along the main sections of Burn Street. Forensic Programmer teams are sweeping residences in the area, but as always we suspect the Deckers have by now fled to the Miracle Mile. We have closed the main roads to limit their movement but considering they have not been intercepted, we expect they have already slipped the cordon. Maintain cordons until 0800 tomorrow morning, at which time, return to regular patrols.
    Vigilance, 
    Priest-Commander Militant Archibald Von Neumann

CPU USAGE:
  - 77%
  
DIVIDENDS:
  - MODERATE TO FAVOURABLE
  
STREETER:
    Word it is, I just wanna send a message to the [REDACTED]ing bake-brain who ripped me off those GT K-Vision 65i's.
  Those cost me six-weeks pay at the data factory and I swear to [REDACTED] I'll find you and take it outta your hide!
  You hear me, deck-head? I'm comin' after you!
    - SOUNDCHEK

QUOTE OF THE DAY:
    "We should consider ourselves lucky that the pursuit of GLAI (Genius-Level Artificial Intelligence) is such folly.
  If such a thing were ever to be spawned into our world, it would no doubt view us with the detached disgust we
  reserve only for anatomically-uninteresting vermin."
    - Dr. Chett Kiddrich-Schraeder Jr., _Genius-Level Artificial Intelligence: An Argument Against_
