---
layout: article

date: 2016-10-25 08:27:36

title: "run up.date --con HAL"

shell: |
  RUNNING UP.DATE
  There are (10) days until Hal-Con
  Panic? y/n
  > n
  Are you sure? y/n
  > n

author_farewell: Rock,
author: Bruce
---

Yes, the rumors are true, I will be appearing in the cyber-flesh as a guest at Hal-Con 2016! Here's a little masterpost of all the information you'll need to get in, see me, and get out alive!

First things first, I will be at the convention *all three days*, so no matter what day you've bought tickets for, you'll be able to see me. I'll be spending most of my time at my table, but I have two panels (more on that later), so check your schedule so that you'll know what time I won't be around. I will also be at the Stargazer Soiree on Saturday night from 7:00 to 9:00 PM, so if you're one of the lucky Warp Speed Pass holders, then we might meet face-to-face! Won't that be a treat.

As to the panels: like I said, I have two. One on Friday, and one on Sunday. Friday is *Local Author Writing Tips*, and will be in room 301 from 7-7:45PM, while Sunday is *Ins-and-Outs of Self Publishing*, and will be in rooms 302-303 from 2-2:45PM. My comedy partner Christian DeWolf will be with me at both of these occasions. Stop in for both! Or neither! You paid for the ticket, you can take the ride.

Speaking of paying, I know you're curious about what's gonna be on sale, and for how much. So, here's the deal:

Both *Kobra Stallion Vol 1: Reptile Justice in the Stars* and *Kobra Stallion Vol 2: Radical Astral Tilt* will be available, for $20 each. There will be a special convention-only deal, where newcomers to the series can buy both volumes for $30. Additionally, copies of *STONR GARBAGE Tape 1: This Time I Might Just Disappear* will be on sale for the usual $5. I'll also be doing live, on-the-spot sketches (not commissioned, just whatever's in my brain at that moment), which will be $5 or free with any purchase. I and DeWolf will be at table 18, on the 2nd floor of the World Trade and Convention Center, so come on down and see us! I'll post a map to my Twitter soon, so keep your eyes peeled for updates there. 

I'll post further updates if and when I have any, but I think that's it. Stay spooky, hams, and I'll see you on the convention floor!
