---
layout: article

date: 2017-09-24 08:27:36

title: "update --news -b -hal=con"

shell: |
  UPDATE Newsfile.n
  > updating...
  > Please specify News Format:
  > PAPER(p)/POST(o)/BLAST(b)
  b
  > WARNING: News Blast (C) has determined that Hal-Con
  has recently taken place. Using News Blast in proximity
  to Hal-Con may damage your system. Do you wish to continue?
  Y
  > Please type Yes or No	


author_farewell: Rock,
author: Bruce
---

HELLO!

Now that Hal-Con's done and I've been rendered totally unable to meaningfully interact with human beings, let's do one of these news blasts. I should really do more of these, but most of the time they're just 'Hey, drew a bunch of pages.' I guess that's the sort of thing you come here for, though? We'll figure it out.

Anyway, if you're seeing this, there's a nonzero chance that you pulled a DATACARD at Hal-Con and are new to the Flyknife Comics... thing, universe, whatever it is we're doing. So, lemme run it down. 

My name is Electricity, and I run this pirated datastream with my comedy/hacking partner Cobalt. Between fighting Commander Zeta in the Binary Order, in the Long Dark Night of Halifax-1, we run a small data bootlegging service, using the Cyber Halberd Reactive Intelligence System (C.H.R.I.S) to transmit comedy from other universes. Sometimes we can beam _ourselves_ into other universe. Sometimes that universe is yours.

All of my work is documented in the Flyknife Comics Cyber-Librarium (accessible from the header nav), or on my Tapastic page (tapas.io/brucedelo), which I'm sundowning as we speak (I don't like their TOS or UX). If you wanna read high-concept sci-fi rigmarole, park your e-trailer in The Valiant Stars. If you're more into free-associative furry drug nightmares, STONR GARBAGE is your jam. If you're totally new- like, say, if you just bought _Starbreakers_ at Hal-Con, then you'll probably want to zip over and read _The Life Comix 2014 Chilled-Out Summertime Jam_, then _Kobra Stallion Volume 1_. _Kobra Stallion Volume 2_ is inbound- I was gonna put it up on Tapastic, but the whole TOS thing kinda burgered that mess. Anyway, stick around here for updates. They ARE coming. I know the dates on these things are really spaced out, but it's been a weird year. Keep your ear to the ground. And if you want more rapid-fire updates, hit my backup stream on Twitter @FlyknifeComics. And above all else, stay safe out there- Rogue Cryptograms know when you're not watching.