---
layout: article

date: 2020-01-07 9:42:00

title: "Newsblast, January 7"

shell: |
  > exec archive 2019.year
  > mkyear 2020
  Initialized 2020.year
  > update news.blast
  Inititalizing newsblast processing...
  ...
  News recalibrated for 2020.
  Would you like to generate a NewsBlast? y/n
  > y

author_farewell: SEE YOU NEXT NEWS CYCLE,
author: NEWSBOT
---

## Welcome to your Personalized Newsblast (TM) for
### January 7, 27,777

## BINARY ORDER ISSUES N----
## !!!!- INCOMING MESSAGE FROM THE FLYKNIFE COMICS MOBILE HQ -!!!!
-- What it is, News Hounds, Houndettes, Nonbinary and Gender-Nonconforming Hounds, and all other Houndlike or Hound-Adjacent lifeforms that consume News in all its forms! Your Comic Captain broadcasting live from the Flyknife Comics Mobile HQ, which as we speak is blasting down the Halifax_1 super-speedway on a mission to transmit only the finest in Snakepunk entertainment directly into your brain-holes. 

Now you might find yourself asking "But Commander! Where have you been all these years!? Since the inception of the Flyknife Comics Cyber-webzone in 2015 (subjective standard timeline), you've only posted 24 (25, counting this one) blog posts! Heck, there was only one last year, and that barely counts!" Well, hold your data-horses there, computer pilgrim! Life's been busy! Lemme break this down for you and cut you in on as much information as can safely be declassified without the Binary Order zeroing my reality-signature. 

Frankly, there's a lot of things a guy's gotta do to get by in this world. Running the 'Q (short for 'HQ') doesn't pay the bills, and I have to re-enter the time stream here and there to take on odd jobs and alternative careers to keep the lights on and the comics coming. And the short version of the long story is that a lot of those jobs frickin' sucked! I spent a lot of the last six years being super-miserable! I dunno if you've ever been that bummed out, but it makes it pretty hard to work on high-flyin' snakepunk adventure, let alone deliver timely and thoughtful news updates via the 'Q's open-source Blast format. 

But like I had to explain to Christian when his favourite alligator-skin attache got hit by a mutator beam, "that ain't the case anymore!" Now I've got a safe place to park the HQ between time-dives and space-hops, and I get to run with a few data-dogs and bit jockeys who know a thing or two about saying "eat bitshift" to the Binary Order! Now I don't like to make big promises, but if everything goes square, I'm gonna be able to parlay this increased sense of internal cosmic peace into more updates for you, the audience. Stay tuned to this webzone for those updates, but I'm talking art updates, fiction updates, and tips and tricks for how to live your life in the shadow of the Battery, and how to dodge our dread oppressors in the Binary Order. And hey- keep expecting only the best in our signature brand of snakepunk adventure comics. 

And hey- if you wanna make the bills easier to pay and the lights easier to keep on, dig me on [Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/flyknifeComics)! Yeah, the time-stream gets a little funky when I have to download the cash across eras, but I'll make it work. 

That's all for now, my Hounds! I'll see you in cyberspace! Now back to your regularly scheduled News Blast.
-- "And anyone who is caught *not* obeying this new directive," Binary Imperator Callix Photogenesis said, with an appropriately imperious sneer, "Will, of course, be shot on sight."

## THIS WEEK IN HISTORY
- Starbreakers 3 passes 1/3 completion of its inking phase.
- Secret Novel Project finishes first draft of its first part (of a projected four).
- Outlining work begins on Jet Generation, the sequel to Starbreakers.

## WISDOM OF THE DAY
"If something stinks, it's probably poisonous! But hey, it might be worth a lot of money, so pick it up anyway! Just remember to wear gloves. Remember: profit first, safety second!"
- Chum Bullwhip, Notorious Libertarian Hack

## ALL POWER TO OUR HACKER FRIENDS IN THEIR STRUGGLE AGAINST THE TYRANNY OF THE BINARY ORDER